Hello.
Welcome to Layer-Backed Views:
AppKit + Core Animation.
My name is Corbin Dunn,
and I'm an AppKit software engineer.
So what are we going to talk about
today and what are our expectations?
Well, we're going to assume you
have some experience with
traditional AppKit drawing or
maybe have experience with UIKit.
You don't necessarily have to have
experience with Core Animation,
but if you do,
a lot of this will be great information
and will fill in a lot of holes for you.
So, effectively using layer-backed views.
What does using a layer-backed view mean?
It means using Core Animation.
And you want to use Core Animation in
order to get smooth,
fast animations.
And the reason that they're smooth
and fast is the animations aren't
going to be done by the CPU,
but they're going to offload a
lot of the work into the GPU.
By using a layer-backed view,
you can utilize all the great
things that are already in NSViews,
like the hierarchy, events, hit testing,
the responder chain, etc.
Historically,
all of our layer-backed views have
worked in AppKit and used traditional
DrawRack-based drawing for a long time,
since Leopard and 10.5.
Now let's jump right in and do
a little demo to show how this
can improve your application.
So what I have here is just a quick
little demo with the frame rate
meter from Quartz Debug showing.
I'm going to start an animation,
and this is not layer-backed.
This is just your traditional,
regular Cocoa application.
Start a few things, get going,
and the frame rate's kind of hovering
at about 25 frames per second.
And I can turn layers off,
and what this does is I just call a
setOnce layer in the entire content view,
and now the frame rate is pegged at 60,
which is what we cap it at.
We could even do some more animations
like fading views in between,
animate sorting, change the heights,
and it's still pegged right at 60.
So that shows some of the benefits
of adopting layer-backed views.
So what are we going to talk about today?
We're going to first talk about drawing.
We're going to cover traditional
AppKit drawing and how it works,
how to turn on Core Animation and
get layer-backed views.
Then we're going to discuss animating,
say how it works traditionally
inside of AppKit and how it
works when you're layer-backed.
We're going to talk about
contents updating and animating
to get efficient animations,
and how to do synchronized sub-view
animations so that everything
works together really well.
We're going to discuss
some best practices,
such as how to deal with text
and get fonts moving right.
We're going to discuss focus
rings so that focus rings work
right in a layer-backed view.
And then finally,
I'm going to do some more details,
tips and tricks at the end.
Let's jump right in and
start talking about drawing.
The traditional NSView drawing model,
it's going to use... Or what I'm
going to talk about is first the
traditional NSView drawing model,
then I'm going to jump
into Core Animation,
how to actually turn
in layer-backed views,
and how it works with AppKit.
Then I'm going to discuss some
differences in set-needs-display,
and how we actually do redrawing,
and how it's different when it's
layer-backed and not layer-backed.
So the traditional NSView drawing model.
And to emphasize this is the traditional
Cocoa and not necessarily layer-backed,
I have this Cocoa icon up in the corner.
So let's say you have
this cool custom view.
It's got a gray background,
a custom image drawn in there,
and some custom text drawn on it.
How would we draw this with
traditional AppKit drawing?
Well, you're probably very familiar
with implementing DrawRect.
You'll do a fill of like a light
gray color that you'll set,
fill in the background.
Then you're going to draw
a border on top of that.
Then you'll probably use our string
drawing API to draw the text,
like the word tandem unicycle.
Then finally,
you'll draw the image on top of it.
So you're just drawing one
thing on top of the other.
Now,
what happens when the window actually
needs to be displayed and drawn?
Well, at draw time,
the window's going to start at the
topmost level and find the dirty
region that needs to be redrawn and
recursively redraw all children.
So first,
the parent window and its content
and frame area will redraw.
It's going to enumerate
to all the subviews.
Draw, say,
the blue one and then the red subview.
And each time,
it's going to enumerate down to each
child subview and draw it on top.
So the custom view that we have there
would be drawn last in this case.
Now what this is basically doing is it's
drawing into the window backing store.
And what you can really think
about doing is drawing into
one large image all at once.
So let's take a quick look at a flow
chart about how this traditionally works.
Your window has a dirty area
that needs to be redrawn.
It's going to prepare the
window context for drawing,
so it's going to set up that big
image you're going to draw into.
Enumerate all the views that are in
that dirty region that need to be drawn,
and call their drawRect.
First on the parent one,
and then the drawRect for
all the children ones.
Now this is just showing
how the flow chart works.
drawRect doesn't really
call the other drawRects,
but it's just to emphasize
how it works here.
So how does it work when you opt
into layers with a layer-backed
view inside of a Cocoa application?
So I have the little Cocoa or the
little Core Animation icon in the
corner here to kind of emphasize that
this is a Core Animation-based slide.
To opt into layer-backed views,
you call setOnceLayer
on your topmost view.
What's going to happen,
all your subviews are going
to implicitly get layers.
Those views don't actually have
setOnceLayer set to yes on them,
but they do have a layer implicitly
created by AppKit by virtue of the
parent having setOnceLayer yes being set.
So when it is layer-backed,
what it really means
is there's a CA layer,
a Core Animation layer,
that kind of backs all these views.
So all these views,
each layer is effectively
like a little image,
and each image is created and filled
in with your DROC implementation.
So what happens when a layer needs to
draw is the layer has a dirty area.
It creates, Core Animation creates,
a CGContextRef,
which is essentially an image for
that entire layer's bound size.
Core Animation calls into
AppKit using a delegate method,
drawLayerInContext,
and that delegate method calls
your implementation of drawRect.
And whatever you drew in drawRect inside
of your bounds for your view is going
to be cached into the layer contents.
So essentially you're drawing
into just that layer's image.
What happens when Core Animation actually
goes to display everything is it has
all those individual layer contents,
all those little images,
and it's going to composite them
together quickly on screen to
give you what you finally see.
So back to some traditional
Cocoa drawing and how we actually
mark views as being dirty.
So with traditional NSViews,
to mark a view as being dirty,
you just call setNeedsDisplay: Yes.
This should be hopefully very familiar.
So what happens is the window's going
to keep track of that dirty region.
Now, the interesting thing,
which hopefully you're all familiar with,
if you invalidate that parent region,
everything in that parent
region is going to invalidate,
and anything which happens
to overlap with it will also
be invalidated and redraw.
So if you have that
orange view underneath,
it's going to also redraw.
So if you call setNeedsDisplay
on the orange one subsequently,
it will do the reverse.
The parent view that's on top of it
will also be redrawn because the window
is keeping track of that dirty region.
Now, let's see how it works
when it's layer-backed,
because it's slightly different.
So if you call set-needs-display
on that orange view,
on a layer-backed view,
just that view is going
to be marked as dirty,
and just that view is
going to be redrawn.
So that other view, the custom one that's
overlapping with it,
will not get redrawn.
Now this is important because I found
some people will accidentally depend
on the validation of sub-views.
So you may call set-needs-display
on a parent view,
and assume it would invalidate
the children views along with it.
When you're layer-backed,
that will not happen.
So if you see views not being redrawn,
make sure you're actually calling
set-needs-display on them.
So what we quickly covered here,
we talked about the traditional
NSView drawing model.
We talked about Core Animation and
how to opt into it and kind of how
it works and draws with AppKit.
And I discussed some differences
in set needs display for
redrawing a layer-backed view
and a non-layer-backed view.
So let's jump right in
and talk about animating.
So how do we animate
traditionally inside of AppKit?
Well, we introduced this
NSAnimatablePropertyContainer,
which is implemented on custom
views or our standard views
like NSView and NSWindow.
And it introduces an
animator proxy object.
This object is an opaque object which
you can treat as the original object.
And any message you send to it,
which is changing a property
value that's animatable,
will automatically animate for you.
And what's going to happen is that
animator proxy is going to start
the animation and potentially
also drive the animation.
So what it looks like
for a practice case,
or a use case,
is you'll do something like
this with a little bit of code.
You're going to grab the view frame,
let's say it starts out like 100x100,
and you want to change that frame
to be 300x300 in the animation.
So grab the View Animator
and call Set Frame on it.
Now at this point,
if you read the view's frame back,
the value that it's going
to have is still be 100x100.
It's still going to be that original
value that it started out as.
And what's going to happen is the
proxy's going to call Set Frame again
and again and again on your view.
Subsequently, your view will redraw on
each step of the animation.
So it kind of looks something like this
for a traditional AppKit animation.
Your view starts out as 100x100.
The proxy calls set frame, say, 175x175.
You redraw, call set frame again,
250x250, and you redraw.
And finally, it calls it at 300x300,
the file size,
and you redraw the file size.
This is all done by
AppKit on the main thread,
which is non-optimal,
so we're going to see how
we can make this better.
First of all, let's see how it's
done in Core Animation.
So this is directly using Core Animation,
and it doesn't necessarily have
anything to do with AppKit.
The Core Animation layers
don't need an animator proxy.
So if you want to change the frame size,
you grab your original frame,
say 100 by 100,
you set it to be 300 by 300,
and you assign that property.
That Core Animation layer property is
going to implicitly animate automatically
without having to use the animator proxy.
And if you read that frame value back in,
it's going to be the
final value of 300 by 300,
even though what you're seeing on
screen is going to be the small,
original 100 by 100 image.
So Core Animation is going to do all
that work in a background thread.
It's going to do the interpolation
from the small image to the large
image automatically for you.
And what it's going to do is it's going
to stretch the contents of that layer.
And the way it's going to
stretch depends on various
Core Animation layer properties.
But it's all done automatically,
and you do not get a call for
drawRect each time it needs to draw.
So if all these animation--
or all these properties for
our CL layer are animatable,
AppKit doesn't want
them to always animate.
So AppKit's going to disable
all implicit animations that
happen on Core Animation layers.
It's going to enable them explicitly
when you use the animator proxy object.
So when you call ViewAnimatorSetFrame,
it's going to implicitly turn on
Core Animation layer animations
and allow that set frame
change to actually animate.
So that was quickly discussing how
we start animations and how they
work with traditional AppKit and how
they work in Core Animation layers.
Let's take a look at the
layer-contents-redraw policy we
introduced in Lion and see how it
helps with a layer-backed view.
So what this property does is it
tells AppKit how the NSView should
invalidate the layer and when
it should invalidate the layer.
It also is a key for how we
can actually drive animations.
So let's take a look at
some of these values.
We have the
NSViewLayerContentsRedrawDuringViewResize
,
OnSetNeedsDisplay, BeforeFrameResize,
and Never.
All these properties only
apply to a layer-backed view,
and so if you aren't using layers,
it doesn't do anything.
So let's take a look at that first one,
the RedrawDuringViewResize.
This is the default
value inside of AppKit,
and we're going to recommend that
you don't use it because it's
going to call SetNeedsDisplay
each time the frame changes.
Now, it's the default value because
it's the most compatible
with how AppKit animations
have traditionally worked.
So if you have your view frame size,
again, going from 100x100 to 300x300,
and you use the ViewAnimator
to change it to 300x300,
if you read in that frame size,
it's still at 100x100,
and the proxy is going
to call SetFrame for you.
So again, looking at that previous
slide that we looked at,
even though you have a layer-backed view,
this animation is going
to be driven by AppKit,
in the main thread,
because we assume you need to
draw on each SetFrame call.
We don't know if you can
properly stretch your contents,
so that is why it's the default value.
A better value to use is the
OnSetNeedsDisplay value for the
layer content's redraw policy.
So let's take a look
at why this is better.
And what does this property mean?
Well, it means you have to actually
call SetNeedsDisplay on the
layer to tell us when to redraw.
We're not going to do it
when SetFrame is called.
So that means whenever
your frame changes,
you actually have to explicitly
call SetNeedsDisplay on the layer.
It's not the default value,
so we require you to go ahead and set it.
So if you do set this value,
what's going to happen is if
you have a layer-backed view,
like this single image here,
your frame starts out by 100x100,
you change the frame size to be 300x300,
and set it using the Animator Proxy.
If you read that value
back in from the view,
just like when it's a strict layer,
your value is going to be
the final size of 300x300,
and Core Animation is going to drive
that animation in the background thread,
and you will not get a draw-rec
call on each step of the animation,
but it's very fast and efficient.
So why isn't that the default value?
Well, the reason why is because what
if you have a custom view like
this one that really needed to
redraw each step of the animation?
So if drawX is not being called,
what's going to happen is the
contents are going to be stretched.
So you're stretching the text
and you're stretching the image,
which actually is going
to be displayed there,
and it's going to not look good.
The image will probably be blurry
and the text will probably be blurry.
So, what is the solution to that so you
can use Onset Needs Display to get fast
animations driven by Core Animation?
You can composite your view
with subviews in order to
actually make it work correctly.
So your background could just be
a view which draws a light gray
with a dark gray border fill.
And then you can composite
it made of subviews,
so you could drop in an NSTextField
for your actual text area,
and an NSImageView for your image there.
Or you can just use the
AutoResizingMask or AutoLayout
to actually control your position
of where these views are located.
Then at runtime,
what happens when the animation happens,
it's going to be smooth,
it's going to be driven
by Core Animation inside
the background thread.
The text is not going to stretch because
it's just going to move the layer
around from one position to another,
because in this case we didn't
even want to change the text size.
And the ImageView is going to
properly stretch and know how
to redraw itself or stretch,
and will look perfectly fine.
Now another option for the
layer contents redraw policy,
we have the
NSViewLayerContentsRedrawBeforeViewResize
.
So what this means is it's going to
invalidate the view and the layer
right before the animation starts.
And it's going to let you redraw
at the final size of the animation.
It's going to use that as the contents
for the animation as it happens.
In Core Animation,
we use that for driving the
animation on the background thread.
This means the contents are going to
look crisp at the end of the animation,
but might look a little bad at the start.
So let me emphasize and
show how that works.
So if you're using this
Before View Resize option,
and you're changing
from 100x100 to 300x300,
as soon as you make that
animator call before the
animator even starts animating,
your view is going to instantly
see itself at the final size of,
say, 300x300,
and redraw once right there.
Then that's going to be the contents
for your layer stretched down.
Since it's stretched down,
your contents might look
a little down-sampled.
It might not look perfect or quite good.
But during the animation,
it's going to be fast and smooth,
and at the end of the animation,
it will look correct and perfect.
So this is a good option to
use in some cases where you
know that you can redraw once,
and it will look fine.
Next, we have the NSView Layer Contents
Redraw Never option.
So what is this good for?
Well, what it means is whenever you call
setNeedsDisplayYes on your view,
the view is not going to do anything.
It's not going to invalidate
the layer or touch it at all.
So this is good in some very
limited and useful cases,
or some limited cases.
One particular place that's very
useful is for a layer-hosted view,
which begs the question,
"What's the difference between
layer-backing and layer-hosting?"
Layer-backing is what we're
talking about in this talk,
and that's when AppKit's going to
create and manage a layer for you
that's essentially behind the view.
You don't really have
to do anything with it.
It's going to own most of
the properties on the layer,
and you don't have
explicit control over it.
Layer hosting is you as a developer
say create a custom CA layer
subclass called MyCustomLayer,
and you call setLayer in that view.
We're going to host that layer
inside of the view for you.
We're going to keep a hands-off
approach and not touch things on it.
So that was discussing animating,
and in particular using the
Layer Contents Redraw policy to get fast,
smooth animations.
Let's talk about contents updating.
So you have these fast animations.
It's great,
but you have lots of memory now,
because on screen you have a
ton of these layers that all
have the same exact contents.
They all have a green background.
They all have the same image.
So how can we actually
make memory better?
Or use less memory?
The way to use less memory
is to not use drawRact.
Now, how can you not use DrawEct?
Well,
the way you can do it is by directly
using Core Animation properties
to represent your user interface.
Now, CA Layer has some properties like
background color and border color
that you can explicitly set to
control how your layer looks.
You can also directly set
the layer's contents to be a
particular image that you have.
And you can use that same layer contents,
that same image,
in multiple views that have the actual
same look and share it everywhere.
You can also take a small image
and have it stretch properly.
Let's take a look at how that
works by just a regular CA layer
and how you set properties.
If you have a typical CA layer,
you can do things like set the
background color to be white,
border color to be 2 pixels
wide or 2 points wide,
and red.
And you get these intrinsic
properties that are set,
and they're very cheap to set.
Interesting thing that's new to
Mountain Lion is we now have methods on
NSColor to convert from the NSColor to a
CGColorRef because Core Animation layers
utilize CGColorRefs.
In addition to setting
intrinsic properties like the
border and background color,
you can also set the
contents explicitly to be,
say, an image that you have,
and just have it stretch to
be the contents of the layer.
Let's take a look at the traditional
layer updating again and how it works.
So again, your layer needs to draw,
recreate an image,
or Core Animation creates an
image to have you draw into,
the CGContextRef.
And then it calls drawRack to
fill in the layer contents.
Now in Mountain Lion,
we added a new step here to
more efficiently update things.
We added a new API in
NSView called WantsUpdateLayer.
If you say no to WantsUpdateLayer,
it's going to retrieve the traditional
AppKit drawing of filling in the
layer contents with drawRack.
If you say yes,
then AppKit's going to use a different
Core Animation delegate method called
DisplayLayer to fill in the contents.
And what it's going to do is it's going
to call a new method in AppKit called
UpdateLayer for you to explicitly
update the layer however you want.
So let's take a look
at implementing this.
You override wantsUpdateLayer,
and you say yes.
Your updateLayer implementation
is going to just directly set
those Core Animation properties.
So you could just directly say, hey,
the background color is white
and the border color is red.
You can also directly
set your layer contents.
So you just directly set the
layer contents to be whatever
image you already happen to have.
Now, why is this better and
why does it save memory?
Well, now you have that same image,
which is actually shared
in multiple locations.
So instead of having DrawRect drawing
into an individual image for each one,
we're utilizing the same
image in multiple locations.
In addition, those backgrounds actually
aren't even drawing anymore.
It's just setting a
Core Animation property to
say it's gonna be light gray.
So it's very efficient and cheap
for memory in order to do this.
So that's cool,
but what if you want to do
some more complex things,
such as you want to
create a button like this,
which has a background that needs to be
stretched with like a nine-part image?
So how do we do that and have it
actually get it so that when your
button is animated and resized,
it animates and resides smoothly
and correctly and is done by
Core Animation and background thread?
What you're going to do is you're
going to make your view have several
sub-views to represent each piece.
You'll have a background view area
that's just the background of the button.
And you have this background nine-part
image which you want to stretch properly.
And normally you'd use NSImageDrawing
to just draw it and fill it in.
Instead of that,
you want to share this image
with all buttons that you happen
to have in your application.
And the way you're going to do
it is you're going to implement
this new Mountain Lion method,
update layer,
set the contents directly to
that image that you already have,
And the thing to note here is that image
is smaller than your actual view's size.
And you want Core Animation to
stretch it properly.
You want to take that middle
pixel line and repeat it.
Core Animation has a great property
called the Content Center that
tells it how to properly stretch.
And so what we're doing here is,
in this example, I'm saying,
take that middle pixel and use
that as the stretching portion.
So the end caps are left
exactly as they are,
and just the middle portion is stretched.
I highly recommend looking at
the CA Layer header and the
Core Animation documentation
to see how this property
works to fully understand it.
So how do you do something
like add the text field there?
Normally you would just draw it.
Well now you're going to override layout,
and inside of layout you're
going to probably alloc-init a
text field and store it in Ivar.
If you didn't have it, you'll create it.
If you already have your text field,
then what you're going to do is
just update the frame for it.
And then you call super layout.
Now, if you're familiar with Auto Layout,
this method layout was introduced
for Auto Layout on Lion.
And this method is called
if you're using Auto Layout,
or what we did in Mountain Lion is
if you aren't using Auto Layout,
but you are using layer-backed view,
we will call Layout for you so
you can opt into using this new
technology without having to
necessarily adopt Auto Layout.
Now how do you deal with multiple states?
Well, you're going to do what you
typically did in drawing,
which is switch based on
something like your press state,
except you're going to just set
different layer contents based
on if you're pressed or not.
So that's pretty easy.
And then the way to actually
invalidate yourself is the
same way you'd do it before.
Say in your mouse down,
you just call setNeedDisplay: yes,
and that will trigger us to
call updateLayer again lazily,
only when it needs to be.
and you can actually update
your state for your button
background to be a press state.
Now, how do you update the title?
Well, if you have the title as
a separate text field,
then it's really easy.
You're just going to forward to the
text field the setting of the title.
And the NSTextField is going to know
how to actually draw itself and redraw
itself properly and efficiently.
You're going to call
setNeedLayout on yourself.
You're not going to call
setNeedDisplay on yourself because
you as a button don't need to draw
when your title changes anymore.
But you need to layout because your
title might have gone from big to
small and you need another call to
layout to actually layout your text
position in the right location.
So that was discussing animating
and how to actually break up
your view into subviews and get
efficient animations that way.
Let's talk about how to
synchronize subview animations.
So consider this:
you're using the new Layer Contents
Redraw policy that we introduced in Lion,
and you want to animate a
parent view's frame size which
has a child view inside of it.
Now you're going to use the
animator proxy to change that parent
view's frame size to be small,
from being small to, say, being large,
like 500 by 500.
Now, if you recall what I said earlier,
that view's going to instantly
think it's at the final size
before the animation starts.
So if your view does something
like layout inside a set frame,
it's going to put that child
view at the final location.
And so when the animation starts,
you'll probably see something like this.
That view's out in the middle of space.
and the actual other view is going
to only be the thing that animates.
So how do we synchronize those
subviews' animations together?
What we really want is
something that looks like this.
Animates together synchronized.
First,
let's discuss the NSAnimationContext,
which applies to layer-backed
or non-layer-backed views.
What this context does is allows
you to group animations together.
You can group animations
and change the duration,
the timing,
and some other properties that happen
for that particular group of animations.
Why is this important?
Because in Mountain Lion we
introduced a new property
called AllowsImplicitAnimations.
This property controls those
implicit layer animations.
What happens is this
property defaults to No.
When it's set to Yes on
the animation context,
all view or layer properties
will implicitly animate without
having to use the animator proxy.
So this allows nested
animations to happen.
You can call SetFrame on the
parent view using the animator,
and the children will implicitly
animate without having to
be using the animator proxy.
Now, if you're familiar with UIKit,
this is very similar to UIView's
SetAnimationsEnabled property.
And of course,
this only applies to layer-backed views,
so it does not work or do anything
for non-layer-backed cases.
So how does it work?
Well,
you actually don't have to ever set this.
If you're using the animator proxy,
it'll be set for you automatically
and you don't have to do anything.
So when you call the animator,
it's implicitly going to say, "Hey,
animation context,
let's say it allows implicit
animations to be yes." Then change
your frame and then set it back to no.
So what's cool about this
is in your frame change,
if you do any layout that
changes subview frames,
they're going to implicitly animate
along with that parent view,
which is generally what you want.
And in the end, it gives you that view
where the child view,
the little blue one,
will animate synchronized
with the parent view.
So that was discussing animating,
and I was talking about how to
actually do synchronized sub-view
animations with Apparent View.
Let's move on and talk
about some best practices,
and in particular,
text and font smoothing
and how to deal with it.
First of all, LCD font smoothing,
what is it?
Well, it's also known as
subpixel anti-aliasing.
It is actually different
than anti-aliasing,
which is separate.
And you can kind of see it in
this close-up shot here of the
word "button." The LCD font
smoothing on an LCD display will,
when we render text,
will make it look better to read by
changing the colors adjacent to the text.
So next to the letters "b" and
"button," you can see a blue area on
the right and a little yellow area
kind of on the left of the text.
And that's what LCD font smoothing is.
In order for LCD font smoothing to work,
we actually have to draw the text
into something that's opaque.
The text needs something to composite
with in order to do font smoothing.
In other words,
it needs to know the colors
that are by the letters in order
for it to do font smoothing.
Now, with normal AppKit drawing,
this all works great because,
as I showed at the start,
you're going to draw
your background first,
and then you explicitly
draw the text on top of it,
so when the text is drawn,
it has something to composite
with and do LCD font smoothing.
When you have a layer-backed view,
that may not be the case.
So you might have a separate
layer for your background,
and that separate opaque layer
is separate from the text.
So pretend that word
"tandem" is in its own layer,
and "pretend" it has a
non-opaque background layer.
So in other words,
that white area is actually transparent.
So the text there, when it's drawn,
wouldn't have anything to
do font-smoothing with when
it's drawn into that layer.
So this presents a problem.
If you draw text into
something that's transparent,
it's going to not look right.
In particular,
it's going to look a little
bowler than it should.
And again in this screenshot,
pretend the white area is transparent.
It's just hard to represent in slides.
So if we turn off font smoothing,
we discovered, hey,
the text actually looks better because,
well, it's still got anti-aliasing.
So let me go back to the
previous slide really quick.
So here, notice how the text looks bold?
If we turn off font smoothing,
it looks a little bit smoother
and better to the eye.
So what AppKit is going to do
is it's going to automatically
turn off font smoothing for
your view when it does drawing,
and it's going to automatically turn
it off if you say "No" to "Is Opaque."
So if you don't have an opaque view,
then we'll just turn it off so it
looks better without font smoothing.
If your view says "Yes" to "Is Opaque,"
we leave font smoothing on so that
you get that great-looking text.
Of course,
what if you have a view that says
"no to being is-opaque" because,
say, it's drawing a round background,
but you really are drawing text
into an opaque area in that view?
So you know you can
do LCD font smoothing.
What you can do as a developer
is manually turn it on.
And the way you turn it on is you grab
the current context as a CG Context
Ref using Inits Graphic Context,
Current Context, Graphics Port.
Explicitly use the
CGContextSetShouldSmoothFonts to true
to turn it actually on explicitly.
And then you can go ahead and draw your
text and you'll get LCD font smoothing.
So, that's great, you can control it,
but what if you really just want to
use a text field and have it have
a background that's transparent?
Well, the great thing that we
did in Mountain Lion is
text fields automatically
implement LCD font smoothing,
even if they're in a transparent layer.
So this is really cool and great.
It means you can just
drop a text field down,
the text field can have a
background that's transparent,
and it's going to properly
do font smoothing.
We did all the work in
AppKit magically to make it work
automatically with Core Animation,
so you don't have to worry about
it if you're using text fields.
So there's a caveat with this is
we still need a layer-backed view
in the hierarchy that is opaque.
So if you just set do set wants layer
on a text field and it doesn't have
any parents which are layer-backed,
then it won't work.
But that's generally not the case.
Usually you have more than
one layer-backed area.
So it works great if at least
one ancestor layer is opaque.
So that was discussing some
best practices with text,
in particular how to get
fonts moving and how it should
work with layer-backed views.
Let's talk about focus rings.
So this is typical Cocoa drawing
of how you actually deal with
focus rings and how you draw them.
So your typical draw implementation
will do all your typical normal drawing
of drawing the text and image first.
And then you'll probably check,
see if you are the
window's first responder.
So if the self.windowFirstResponder
is yourself,
you'll probably do something
like NSSetFocusRingStyle
to be NSFocusRingOnly,
saying that whatever's going to be
drawn is just going to be a focus ring.
And then you'll do a fill,
and whatever you fill or drew
isn't going to draw what you drew,
but instead draw the focus
ring around that area.
So this will just draw the focus ring
around the whole view that we had there.
But notice the focus ring is actually
drawing outside the bounds of your view.
That's important because if you do that
same type of code in a layer-backed view,
well, it's going to clip that focus ring
outside of your view's bounds,
and it's going to look wrong.
Let me go back again so you can see.
See how it's blurry around
the edge with the focus ring?
And now the focus ring is clipped.
So how do you solve that
with a layer-backed view?
Well, what we did is, in Lion,
we introduced a new API to solve this.
We introduced three new methods:
drawFocusRingMaskBounds,
drawFocusRingMask,
and noteFocusRingMaskChanged.
So let me tell you how those methods
work and how to utilize them.
The Focus Ring Mask Bounds:
This is where you should return the
enclosing shape for your focus ring.
And in general, 99% of the time,
it's just your bounds for your view,
even if you might draw the focus
ring as a subset of your bounds.
This is only called in your view
if it is the first responder,
so you don't have to worry about
checking to see if your view
is the first responder anymore.
We'll automatically do
it only when you are.
If you don't want to have the focus ring,
even though you are the first responder,
just return an empty rect,
and we won't draw the focus ring
or call you back to draw it at all.
So inside a Draw Focus Ring mask,
you'll override and implement this
method to actually draw your focus ring.
So if you have some crazy shape,
like a Bezier path that you create,
you can go ahead and fill that shape and
the focus ring will appear around it.
You could also do things like
I showed before where you just
fill the bounds of your view.
You don't have to set any
focus ring styles or anything.
It's automatically set
up for you correctly.
All you need to draw here is
your area that you want the
focus ring to appear around.
Now, what if your focus ring
changes inside of you?
What do you need to do?
You need to let AppKit know
that that area changed.
And the way you let it know is by
calling NoteFocusRingMaskChanged.
AppKit will then invalidate the focus
ring and call you back to draw it again,
if you are the first responder.
So how does this work
when it's layer-backed,
and why is this better?
Well, now that we have the focus ring
drawing separate from the view drawing,
we can draw the focus ring into
a separate layer from where
your actual view is and just
composite the two together.
So the focus ring will be placed on top
of your view when you're layer-backed.
So that was great.
That's dealing with how to
fix and solve focus rings when
you have a layer-backed view.
The other thing that's important to
mention is that inside of AppKit,
we updated AppKit to properly
use this API in Mountain Lion,
so all focus rings for all our standard
controls should draw correctly.
So let's talk about some more details,
tips and tricks for layer-backed views.
So, when you have a layer-backed
and a layer-hosted view,
what properties do we
manage inside of AppKit?
There's quite a few properties that
we implicitly manage that you probably
don't want to change explicitly.
And I'm going to quickly tell you them:
geometry-flipped, bounds, frame.
And if you're familiar
with Core Animation,
frame is really an implied
property that's created from the
position and bounds of a layer.
The anchor point, transform, shadow,
meaning all the shadow
properties like the color,
offset, opacity, and radius.
The hidden property, the filters,
and the compositing filter.
All those properties we have
always controlled in AppKit,
but new to Mountain Lion is the fact
that we control geometry-flipped.
We've always recommended you
to not actually change it,
but if you do change it and
you're linking on Mountain Lion,
you're going to have some problems.
So, prior to Mountain Lion,
layer coordinates were not
equal to view coordinates.
And AppKit would try and control
the position of a layer by
changing the anchor point.
So depending on if your view
said "yes" to being isFlipped,
the anchor point might be or .
And for you to convert from one
coordinate system to the other,
you had to use convertPointToLayer
or convertPointFromLayer
to go back and forth.
In our implementation,
AppKit would look at the
isFlipped property and do some
math and coordinate transforms
to get everything to be correct.
We didn't recommend that you
would change the geometry flip
property back for Mountain Lion,
but you could,
and you could kind of get away with it.
Now, in Mountain Lion and above,
we made it so layer coordinates are
exactly equal to view coordinates.
This helps a lot with actually
creating and placing views and layers
and makes things a lot simpler.
AppKit no longer changes
the anchor point.
It's going to always be at . And the
way it's going to make this work is by
managing this geometry flip property.
You don't have to do
anything to get this.
It just works when you
link on Mountain Lion.
But it's important to understand
how Geometry Flip works because it
might affect your application if you
were expecting it to not be changed.
So this is just a regular
CA layer that I have showing here.
And Geometry Flipped is
set to "no," the default,
and the anchor point is set to
"00," and we're at the bottom
left there of that view-- or,
sorry, layer.
If the only thing you
change is geometry flipped,
your coordinate system for your
view is going to-- or sorry,
your layer is going to change and flip,
but also all your sub-layers
are going to also flip too.
Now, that might cause trouble
for inside of AppKit.
So it looks like-- let's see how
we actually solve this inside
AppKit by managing geometry flipped
so that your view coordinates are
equal to your layer coordinates.
If a view says yes to isFlipped,
we're going to make the backing
layer's geometry flip property be yes.
But if you recall before,
that's going to flip
all the children layers.
And so what we're going to do is,
for the children layers,
dependent on the superlayer
or the superview,
we're going to flip its geometry
flipped value also in order
to get things to look right.
So this is really kind of confusing.
And the bottom line is, you don't have to
manage geometry flipped,
and you probably shouldn't change it.
But if you're linking a
Mountain Lion and your views are
appearing upside down for some reason,
it might be because of this.
So that's one reason,
or one thing to look into
if you're having trouble.
Now, how to support high resolution
and our new Retina display
with layer-backed views?
Well, the best way is just to use
layer-backed views and to not create
your own CA layer hierarchies.
By utilizing layer-backed views,
you get all the great things
that we have in NSView,
like hit testing, tracking, mouse events,
the responder chain.
In addition, we automatically do
high resolution support.
So, if you use an image which
has two representations,
a low-res and a high-res representation,
and set as your layer's contents,
we will automatically go ahead and update
things for you on your layer-backed
view when the resolution changes.
So, for instance,
you move your view from a
1x display to a 2x display,
everything will work automatically.
But if you must use CA layer directly,
we introduced a new
delegate method called
LayerShouldInheritContentScaleFromWindow.
And this is in Lion now.
And what you can do here is you can go
ahead and update your layer's contents
explicitly for layers that we don't know
about in AppKit to update their contents,
their content scale properties,
and make it look properly
for high resolution.
We have a whole talk about this,
which I'll reference later.
Now, before I said, well,
don't use draw-rect,
and we really want you
to use update-layer.
Well, that's not the case,
and there are still some cases where it's
really easy or good to use draw-rect.
For instance,
if you have a view which is small,
then its layer contents will be small.
And if that view's frame never changes,
or in particular the size never changes,
then it doesn't matter
if you use draw-rect,
because it's never going to
need to stretch the contents,
and it'll probably always look right.
And you can just set the layer
contents redraw policy and get
everything to animate correctly.
So, if you have a small button
or a small custom view,
it's still great to use draw-rect.
In addition, you might want to implement
draw-rect because you want
to support 10.7 and 10.8.
So you want to have a layer-backed
application review and you
want to opt-in to update layer
when you're on Mountain Lion,
but still use draw-rect when
you aren't on Mountain Lion,
and so you can implement
both to support both.
In addition,
in order to actually do printing,
we still utilize DrawRect.
So if you have a view that has to print,
then you're going to need
to implement DrawRect.
And of course,
all the standard AppKit controls are
going to still implement DrawRect,
so all of them will still print properly,
so it can still print text, images, etc.
correctly.
So, for traditional Cocoa drawing,
we had this thing called NSCell.
And NSCell won't work properly with
layer-backed views if you have a
control which was dependent on cells.
So, for instance,
if you have a cell-based table view,
all those individual cells will
not get an individual layer when
you're making the view layer-backed.
The whole table will become layer-backed.
So, what we're encouraging you
to do is for efficiency,
you should be using a
view-based table view.
And if you aren't familiar
with view-based table views,
I highly recommend looking at
the talk that I gave last year
on introduction from basics to
advance on view-based table views.
When you do have a view-based table view,
all those individual views there will
each individually be layer-backed,
and you can do fast, smooth animations.
So, the demo that I gave at the start was
all using a view-based table view.
In addition, some other legacy cell-based
controls are NSMatrix,
so we recommend not using NSMatrix.
Instead, just use regular views.
It should be really simple
to create an array of views.
The nice thing about Matrix is radio
buttons would all work together.
If you check one radio button,
it will uncheck the others.
Take a look at the AppKit release notes.
We have a way of now having the
radio buttons interact together
automatically when you're using a regular
NSButton without utilizing NSMatrix.
You could also consider
using Collection View,
which is another way of getting
a group of views together
that's managed automatically.
If you're using NSForm,
which was also cell-based,
instead just use text fields.
You can have a label and a
text field really easily.
Now, how do you deal with subclassing
standard AppKit controls?
So most of our AppKit controls now
implement "WantsUpdate" layer and
say "Yes." So we took the time in
AppKit and Mountain Lion to adopt all
this technology so all our standard
controls use a small image and just
properly stretch the layer contents.
This is great for memory efficiency,
allows fast, smooth animations.
And how do you actually go ahead
and take advantage in subclassing
and customize our custom views?
Well, what we need to do is,
if you override anything
that was drawing,
such you override draw-rect,
cell draw with frame,
draw interior with frame and view,
we're going to have to say
no to wants update layer for
that standard AppKit control.
And the reason why is we don't
know what you're going to do
in your drawing implementation,
so we can't go ahead and try
and create it with a subview.
So what you want to do if you want
to extend a standard AppKit control
is you're going to have to override
wants update layer and say yes.
You can add additional subviews to
represent your user interface inside
of layout that adds whatever type of
things you want to our custom views.
You can also use our
standard position methods.
So if you have a cell-based control,
you could subclass in a cell,
don't override the draw methods,
but do override things
like title-rec for bounds,
image-rec for bounds,
and those will create or control
the position of the actual image
and title view that we actually add
to our custom controls ourselves.
So, in conclusion,
what's the most important
thing to take away from this?
We want you to use the
Layer Contents Redraw policy of
NSViewLayerContentsRedrawOnSetNeedsDis
play.
Again, it's not the default value,
so you must explicitly set it
when you have a custom view.
We want you to use
subviews whenever possible,
so recomposite your view using
multiple subviews for efficiency.
Use the new Mountain Lion API,
WantsUpdateLayer and UpdateLayer
to directly set the layer contents
and content center property.
Share your image contents among
multiple layers or multiple views
that have the same UI representation.
Use NSTextField to automatically
get proper font smoothing.
Avoid manual text drawing if possible.
Use the AnimatorProxy
to start animations.
Use the NewProperty on the
AnimationContext to allow implicit
animations to be explicitly started.
Use the LionFocusRingDrawing API to get
focus rings to draw and look properly.
So for more information, contact Jake,
our UI Frameworks evangelist,
and his email is up there.
Documentation.
I highly recommend reading through the
Core Animation Programming Guide to
get familiar with how that works.
You can ask questions on
the Apple Developer Forums.
I'm frequently on there and
can sometimes give you a hand.
Some related sessions:
Advanced Tips and Tricks
for High Resolution OSX and
Mission Friday at 10:15.
Go check that out.
That's it.
Thank you very much.